Git Basics: replaced screenshots with equivalent text and code snippets (#28002)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: git/foundations_git/git_basics.md

1. <span id="new-github-repo"></span>You should have already created a GitHub account in the [Setting Up Git](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-setting-up-git) lesson.

> 1. Create a new repository by clicking the "+" button in the top-right corner and selecting "New repository".

Author: Right, I thought about that.

1. Let's use the command line on your local machine to create a new directory for all of your Odin projects. Create a directory called `repos` with the `mkdir` command in your home folder. Your home folder is represented by `~`. Note that depending on your OS, there may be some [home directory variation](https://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/02-filedir.html#home-directory-variation) - sometimes `~` stands for `/Users/your_username` and sometimes it stands for `/home/your_username`. If you're not sure if you're in your home folder, just type `cd ~`. Once it's made, move into it with the `cd` command.

   ```bash
   mkdir repos
   cd repos/
   ```

1. <span id="github-to-local"></span>Now it's time to clone your repository from GitHub onto your computer with `git clone` followed by the URL you copied in the last step. The full command should look similar to `git clone git@github.com:USER-NAME/REPOSITORY-NAME.git`. If your URL looks like `https://github.com/USER-NAME/REPOSITORY-NAME.git`, you have selected the HTTPS option, not the required SSH option.

   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:USER-NAME/REPOSITORY-NAME.git
   ```

> 1. <span id="origin-push"></span>That's it! You have successfully connected the repository you created on GitHub to your local machine. To test this, you can `cd` into the new **git_test** folder that was downloaded and then enter `git remote -v` on your command line. This will display the URL of the repository you created on GitHub, which is the remote for your local copy. <span id="default-remote"></span>You may have also noticed the word **origin** at the start of the `git remote -v` output, which is the name of your remote connection. The name "origin" is both the default and the convention for the remote repository. But it could have just as easily been named "party-parrot" or "dancing-banana". (Don't worry about the details of origin for now; it will come up again near the end of this tutorial.)

Reviewer: Thinking maybe we tweak this instruction a little more:

```suggestion
1. <span id="origin-push"></span>That's it! You have successfully connected the repository you created on GitHub to your local machine. To test this, `cd` into the new **git_test** folder that was downloaded and then enter `git remote -v` on your command line. You should see an output similar to the following, where `USER-NAME` is your GitHub username:
  ```bash
  origin  git@github.com:USER-NAME:git_test.git (fetch)
  origin  git@github.com:USER-NAME:git_test.git (push)
  ```
  This displays the URL of the repository you created on GitHub, which is the remote for your local copy. <span id="default-remote"></span>You may have also noticed the word **origin** at the start of the `git remote -v` output, which is the name of your remote connection. The name "origin" is both the default and the convention for the remote repository. But it could have just as easily been named "party-parrot" or "dancing-banana". (Don't worry about the details of origin for now; it will come up again near the end of this tutorial.)
```

   ```bash
   cd git-test
   git remote -v

>    ```

Reviewer: We can remove this bash block.

1. <span id="new-github-repo"></span>You should have already created a GitHub account in the [Setting Up Git](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-setting-up-git) lesson.

1. From the GitHub homepage, create a new repository by clicking the "+" button in the top-right corner and selecting "New repository".

1. Give your repository the name "git_test" in the repository name input field. Check "Add a README file". And then create the repository by clicking the "Create repository" button at the bottom of the page.

> 1. This will redirect you to your new repository on GitHub. You should see a layout that includes a tab list of different views (such as "Code", "Pull Requests", and so on) and your repository name along the top of the page, along with a lot of other content elsewhere on the page. To get ready to copy (clone) this repository onto your local machine, click the "Code" button which should be in the section below your repository name. Then select the SSH option in the "Clone" section, and copy the line below it. **NOTE: You MUST click the SSH option to get the correct URL.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. This will redirect you to your new repository on GitHub. You should see a layout that includes a tab list of different views (such as "Code", "Pull Requests", and so on) and your repository name along the top of the page, along with a lot of other content elsewhere on the page. To get ready to copy (clone) this repository onto your local machine, click the "Code" button which should be in the section **below** your repository name - note that you should not click the "Code" *tab* that appears above your repository name. Then select the SSH option in the "Clone" section, and copy the line below it. **NOTE: You MUST click the SSH option to get the correct URL.**
```
Lemme know what you think of the above addition. Realized it may be confusing that there's a "Code" tab and button on the same page.

Author: I would delete this part "You should see a layout that includes a tab list of different views (such as "Code", "Pull Requests", and so on) and your repository name along the top of the page, along with a lot of other content elsewhere on the page." to not focus attention on that other Code button. 

And instead of "click the "Code" button which should be in the section **below** your repository name - note that you should not click the "Code" *tab* that appears above your repository name." I would say "Click the green "Code" button at the bottom right of the repository name."

Reviewer: So you're thinking something more along the lines of:

> 1. This will redirect you to your new repository on GitHub. To get ready to copy (clone) this repository onto your local machine, click the green "Code" button which should be below and to the right of your repository name. Then select the SSH option in the "Clone" section, and copy the line below it. **NOTE: You MUST click the SSH option to get the correct URL.**

That would probably be good. An alternative would be instead of mentioning its position based on the repo name, using the branch toggle or the repo files/folders, e.g. "click the green "Code" button, which should be to the right of the button displaying the current branch (typically it will display the `main` branch)" or "click the green "Code" button, which should be directly above the section that contains the files and folders in your directory"

I'll leave it up to you what makes the most sense from a user perspective, though.

Author: > So you're thinking something more along the lines of:
> 
> > 1. This will redirect you to your new repository on GitHub. To get ready to copy (clone) this repository onto your local machine, click the green "Code" button which should be below and to the right of your repository name. Then select the SSH option in the "Clone" section, and copy the line below it. **NOTE: You MUST click the SSH option to get the correct URL.**
> 
> That would probably be good. An alternative would be instead of mentioning its position based on the repo name, using the branch toggle or the repo files/folders, e.g. "click the green "Code" button, which should be to the right of the button displaying the current branch (typically it will display the `main` branch)" or "click the green "Code" button, which should be directly above the section that contains the files and folders in your directory"
> 
> I'll leave it up to you what makes the most sense from a user perspective, though.

I'm gonna go with relating the "Code" button position to branch name, as that doesn't change on smaller viewports

1. <span id="git-log"></span>Type `git log` and look at the output. You should see an entry for your "*Add hello_world.txt*" commit. You will also see other details which include the author who made the commit and the date and time of when the commit was made. If your terminal is stuck in a screen with (END) at the bottom, just press "q" to escape. You can configure settings for this later, but don't worry about it too much for now.

#### Modify a file or two

1. Open README.md in your text editor of choice. In this example, we will open the directory in Visual Studio Code by using the command `code .` inside your repository.

   MacOS users: If your terminal reads *"command not found: code"*, you must head back to [Command Line Basics](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-command-line-basics#opening-files-in-vscode-from-the-command-line) and follow the instructions provided to allow this command to work.

1. Add "Hello Odin!" to a new line in `README.md` and save the file with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd> (Mac: <kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd>).

>    <!-- code element needed to not treat the backtick inside the kbd element as code markdown -->

Reviewer: This can be removed if we're not keeping the comment to disable the rule.

1. <span id="git-log"></span>Type `git log` and look at the output. You should see an entry for your "*Add hello_world.txt*" commit. You will also see other details which include the author who made the commit and the date and time of when the commit was made. If your terminal is stuck in a screen with (END) at the bottom, just press "q" to escape. You can configure settings for this later, but don't worry about it too much for now.

#### Modify a file or two

1. Open README.md in your text editor of choice. In this example, we will open the directory in Visual Studio Code by using the command `code .` inside your repository.

   MacOS users: If your terminal reads *"command not found: code"*, you must head back to [Command Line Basics](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-command-line-basics#opening-files-in-vscode-from-the-command-line) and follow the instructions provided to allow this command to work.

1. Add "Hello Odin!" to a new line in `README.md` and save the file with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd> (Mac: <kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd>).

   <!-- code element needed to not treat the backtick inside the kbd element as code markdown -->

>    <!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD033 -->
> 1. Go back to your terminal or if you're using Visual Studio Code you can open the built-in terminal by pressing <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>`</kbd> (backtick). Then type ```git status```. Notice how the output is similar to when we created our *hello_world.txt* file before adding it to the staging area, except the *README.md* file is listed in a section titled "Changes not staged for commit". The meaning is similar to the "Untracked files" section in that the file is not yet added to the staging area.

Reviewer 2: We won't need the MD033 disable anymore because `<kbd>` is in the allowed elements array in our config.

We can go back to using backticks for the file names (which we should use instead of `*`) by just making the backtick in the `<kbd>` tag use the right HTML entity instead of the raw character. That will satisfy both the linter and Kramdown when we render the web page.

```suggestion
1. Go back to your terminal or if you're using Visual Studio Code you can open the built-in terminal by pressing <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>&grave;</kbd> (backtick). Then type `git status`. Notice how the output is similar to when we created our `hello_world.txt` file before adding it to the staging area, except the `README.md` file is listed in a section titled "Changes not staged for commit". The meaning is similar to the "Untracked files" section in that the file is not yet added to the staging area.
```

The following command will set this configuration. Type (or copy & paste) this command into your terminal and hit <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

   ```bash
   git config --global core.editor "code --wait"

>    ```

Reviewer 2: Strange - Not getting any linting errors with this block unindented. Can't see any rules that would trigger it either, unless at some point the surroundings looked different.

>    ```

Author: @MaoShizhong you are right, I reverted the indentation now
